
# CSK Async

A simple and powerful async abstraction layer lib to easily write Node.js code.

* License: BSD
* Current status: beta
* Platform: Node.js only

While inspired in some way by [caolan/async](https://github.com/caolan/async), CSK Async uses a completely different approach.

Rather than having a whole bunch of specific functions, this lib provides a generic way to solve async code flow.
So anything that can be done by caolan/async lib can be converted to CSK Async, but the reverse is not always true.

Using natural syntax really easy to become familiar with, you will be able to code great things effortlessly, 
without cumbersome callback hell, and without coding again and again the same async pattern and logic.



# Quick example

```js
async.do.series( [
	function( callback ) {
		letsConnectToDatabase( callback ) ;
	} ,
	function( callback ) {
		letsQueryTheDatabase( callback ) ;
	} ,
	function( callback ) {
		doMoreQueries( callback ) ;
	}
] )
.exec( function( error , results ) {
	if ( error ) { console.log( 'Doh!' ) ; }
	else { console.log( 'Yay! Done!' ) ; }
} ) ;
```

This small example prepares an async job's list and executes it. 

All jobs are executed in series, one after one.

Each callback works the Node.js way, the first argument is always the *error* argument.

If one job fails (ie it calls its callback with an error or any truthy value), all remaining jobs are skipped 
and the *exec*'s callback is instantly called with that error.

When every jobs are finished, the *exec*'s callback is called, the *results* argument contains an array of the *arguments* passed by each job to its callback.



# Features

### Code flow

* Series
* Parallel
* Race (parallel, stop when the first job finish without error)
* Waterfall (series, each job transmits its results to the next)
* While loop, do while loop
* Async if/and
* Async if/or
* Nested async if



### Modifier

* Set the parallel limit
* While conditions
* Repeat jobs a fixed amount of time
* Iterator
* Timeout for jobs (avoid pending jobs troubles)
* Retry jobs on error (useful for managing outgoing connection for example)
* Async/sync job's scheduling controle (turn sync jobs into async, change the *nice* value of the job's scheduler)
* Continue on error or not
* Transmission of all jobs' results or only results of the last job
* Then callback, if successful
* Else callback, for *async if*
* Catch callback, if an error occurs
* Finally callback, always executed
* Define input arguments to invoke *exec()* with, that are transmitted to jobs
* Export a plan as a simple function



# Install

Use Node Package Manager:

    npm install async



# Plan stage & exec stage concept

There are an important concept to understand when using this lib: there are two stages to perform an async flow.

In the first stage, you define the plan.
All plan definition returns an *async.Plan* object.

Then you can *exec()* your plan as many time as you want. All the *exec* method family returns an *execContext* object.
The first time an *async.Plan* is *exec()*, it becomes locked forever: you cannot modify it anymore.

The example above becomes:

```js
// Plan stage, jobs' definition
var plan = async.do.series( [
	function( callback ) {
		letsConnectToDatabase( callback ) ;
	} ,
	function( callback ) {
		letsQueryTheDatabase( callback ) ;
	} ,
	function( callback ) {
		doMoreQueries( callback ) ;
	}
] ) ;

// Change the plan, each job should terminate within 200ms
plan.timeout( 200 ) ;

// Exec stage
plan.exec( function( error , results ) {
	if ( error ) { console.log( 'Doh!' ) ; }
	else { console.log( 'Yay! Done!' ) ; }
} ) ;

plan.exec( function( error , results ) {
	if ( error ) { console.log( 'Doh x2!' ) ; }
	else { console.log( 'Yay! Again!' ) ; }
} ) ;

// No effect! Plan cannot be modified anymore!
plan.timeout( 200 ) ;
```



# Reference

TODO.



# BDD-style spec (generated by mocha)



